Private and Confidential

Our Ref:  [           ]


Date:	   [           ]    


To:	[ Name of Hirer  ]
	[ Address ]
	


Dear Sirs

HIRE PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT

We, Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited (the “Bank”), are pleased to extend to you a Hire Purchase Facility (the “Facility”) totalling $[] subject to the terms and conditions herein and the terms and conditions in the Bank’s standard form Hire Purchase Agreement to be entered between the Bank and you and the Standard Terms and Conditions Governing Banking Facilities:

1.	Machinery/ Equipment
	[ New/ Used, description, type, model, quantity, registration/ equipment no. ]

together with all parts, replacements and renewals thereof and all additions which become the property of the Bank, and accessories thereto and, wheresoever the context admits, includes each item comprised in the machinery/equipment (hereinafter referred to as “Equipment”).

2.	Location of Machinery/ Equipment

You, shall, forthwith upon request, provide the Bank written confirmation of the whereabouts of the Equipment (the “Location”). You shall not take or send or permit the Equipment to be taken or sent out of Singapore.

3.	Facility/ Financing Limit

A maximum of $[  ], []% of the purchase price of the Equipment or the value of the Equipment as determined by the Bank, whichever is the lowest (the “Maximum Limit”).

Where the value of the Equipment is denominated in a foreign currency the Bank will make available the equivalent amount in Singapore Dollars (SGD) based on the exchange rate prevailing on a date to be agreed by you and the Bank.  Should the required SGD amount exceeds the Maximum Limit after the currency conversion, the Bank shall have the absolute discretion to (but not obliged to) revise the Maximum Limit and determine the revised facility limit to be granted to you.

4.	Pricing

Interest shall be computed [at a flat rate of xx% p.a. (effective rate: xxx%)] / [at an effective rate of xx% p.a.] (on a monthly reducing basis) / [with monthly rests at xxx% [above / below*] the Bank's prevailing Equipment & Machinery Board Rate]* (hereinafter referred to as “Normal Interest Rate”). The Bank shall, at its absolute discretion at any time upon notification (but without your consent), be entitled to revise the Normal Interest Rate applicable to the Facility, and you shall pay such increased or reduced monthly instalments based on the new rate(s) of interest. Such notification shall be conclusive and binding on you.

[The current Equipment & Machinery Board Rate361 is 5.00% p.a. and is subject to change at the Bank’s absolute discretion]*

* Please delete where not applicable

5.	Repayment/ Period of Hire

The Facility or the hire purchase price is to be repaid by [] monthly instalments of $[v] each (except for the final instalment which will be notified by the Bank to you in writing in due course) or by such other instalments as may be specified by the Bank by notice to you in writing upon execution of the Hire Purchase Agreement. You shall pay the monthly instalments or hire promptly on the due dates.

6.	Credit Monitoring Cost

You shall reimburse the Bank $50.00 (inclusive of GST) for Credit monitoring costs.

7.	Late Payment Charges

If you fail to pay any instalment or other sum becoming due and payable under this Facility or the Hire Purchase Agreement then you shall pay interest on such sum from the date the same became due and payable at the rate of five per cent (5%) above the then prevailing prime lending rate of the Bank to the date of actual payment as well after as before judgement obtained.

8.	Redemption

(a)	You may from time to time by giving one (1) month’s notice to the Bank (or payment of one (1) month’s interest in lieu) and upon payment of the redemption fee of two per cent (2%) of the settlement amount if the redemption is being made within twelve months from the date the Facility is disbursed, or one per cent (1%) of the settlement amount if the redemption is being made after the initial twelve month period, pay any sum to the Bank on account, as full or partial redemption of the Facility over and above the instalments hereby covenanted to be paid, subject to the following:-

(i)	in the event that the Facility is granted in relation to the hire purchase of one Equipment, no partial redemption of the Facility is permitted; and

(ii)	in the event that the Facility is granted in relation to the hire purchase of more than one Equipment, you shall be permitted to partially redeem the Facility only if the partial settlement amount paid enables you to exercise the option to purchase one or more Equipments in its/their entirety under the Hire Purchase Agreement at such price to be determined at the absolute discretion of the Bank.

	All partial redemptions are to be applied against the monthly instalment payable in the inverse order of maturity or towards reduction of the monthly instalment amount, as requested by you. Upon such payment, the Bank may vary the amount of each monthly instalment payable to the Bank under the provisions herein and/or increase or decrease the number of instalments. 

(b)	Any notice of any intended redemption, whether total or partial, shall state the Equipment(s) proposed to be purchased by you under the Hire Purchase Agreement upon the said redemption, be in such form and substance acceptable to the Bank and be irrevocable and you shall redeem in accordance with such notice. Any amount redeemed shall not be available for subsequent utilisation. 

9.	Support

The Facility shall be supported by a [ joint and several guarantee of (state names.) ] / [corporate guarantee of ………………………… ].

10.	Availability Period

Subject to fulfilment of all Conditions Precedent, the Facility shall be available for utilisation not later than the date falling six (6) months from the date of this facility letter or such other date as agreed to by the Bank in writing.  You shall indemnify the Bank for any loss (including loss of profit), premium, penalty or expense which may be incurred in liquidating or employing deposits from third parties (acquired to make maintain or fund the Facility or any part thereof) as a result of the Facility remaining undrawn or only partly drawn at the end of the Availability Period.

11.	Conditions Precedent

The Facility will be available for your use upon completion of all matters and documentation to the satisfaction of the Bank and upon receipt of the following (where applicable) in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, including but not limited to:-

(a)	In the case of a corporate, a copy of your Board Resolution and that of the guarantor, if it is a corporate, in the Bank’s prescribed format and duly certified as a true copy by two Directors or a Director and the Company Secretary;

(b)	The duplicate copy of this facility letter, the Hire Purchase Agreement and the Guarantee, all duly executed and any other document required by the Bank;

The insurance policy or cover note evidencing adequate insurance, taken at your expense, in the joint names of the Bank as owner and you as hirer of the Equipment against loss or damage by accident, fire, burglary, strikes, riots, civil commotion and theft and such other risks as the Bank may consider fit to the full insurable value thereof on such terms and conditions and with an insurer acceptable to the Bank. There shall be a non-cancellation clause and it must be stated therein that all payment under the policy is to be made to the Bank as owner.

The Bank being satisfied upon a site visit that the Equipment has been duly accepted by you, and the Bank having received to its satisfaction photographs of the Equipment located at the Location, which display clearly the model and serial number of the Equipment, dated on or about the date of this facility letter.

Receipt of invoice from Equipment supplier stating Equipment type, model, identification number and purchase price;

Evidence that all monies, fees, costs and expenses due payable in connection or on account of the Facility have been paid;

Such other documents and evidence as the Bank may require, 

provided always that there is no adverse change in your business, operations, financial condition or any other factors affecting you and/or any of your customers.

12.	Insurance

12.1	The Equipment under financing in this Facility Letter shall be insured by Overseas Assurance Corporation Ltd (“OAC”) or such agency or insurance company that is acceptable to the Bank, containing such terms and conditions as the Bank may require.  If the Equipment is insured by one or more agencies or insurance companies apart from OAC (the “Alternative Insurer”), you shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, pay to the Bank an administrative fee of S$100 for each policy of insurance issued by the Alternative Insurer.

12.2	All insurance premiums for the Equipment shall be borne by the Hirer.

12.3	In the event of non-payment of any insurance premium, the Bank shall be entitled to debit the same from any of the Hirer’s account(s) maintained with the Bank.

12.4	The insurance policy should be in force throughout the tenor of the Facility.

12.5	The Bank reserves the right to insure the Equipment with OAC or such agency or insurance company as appointed by the Bank should the insurance policy expire before the end of the tenor of the Facility and a copy of the renewed insurance policy does not reach the Bank at such address as may be notified by the Bank from time to time, upon expiry of the prevailing insurance policy. All costs and expenses of the renewals and cancellations shall be borne by you.

12.6	In the event that the Equipment is insured by OAC and the policy or policies of insurance are on an annual renewal basis, the Bank is authorized to renew the policy or policies on either or both its and/or your behalf every year at the sum insured for the previous policy period. If you wish to change the sum insured, you are obliged to seek approval from the Bank in writing one month prior to the expiry of the relevant policy period.

13.	Goods and Services Tax

It is hereby agreed that any sum payable by you under the Facility shall be exclusive of any applicable Goods and Services Tax, imposition, duty, fees of any kind and levy whatsoever ("Taxes") which may from time to time be imposed, charged or increased before, on or after the date of this letter by any government, statutory or tax authority.  In the event that the Taxes are required by law to be paid on or in respect of any sums payable by or to the Bank relating to this facility letter, the same shall be borne by you, be it of retrospective effect or not, and you shall pay to the Bank on demand the Taxes in addition to all other sums payable to the Bank and the Bank shall be entitled to make any claims against you for reimbursement of the Taxes.
14.	Indemnity

You agree to indemnify the Bank , its officers, directors, agents and employees (the “Indemnified Persons”) on demand at all times against each and every liability (whether civil or criminal), Taxes, loss, charge, claim, proceeding, damage, judgement, enforcement, penalty, fine, costs (including legal costs) and expense of whatsoever nature suffered or incurred by or imposed on any Indemnified Person from time to time in connection with the Equipment, the Hire Purchase Agreement, this facility letter, purchase, sale, ownership, use, operation or hiring of the Equipment, any product or strict liability relating to the Equipment or pursuant to the Hire Purchase Agreement or any other document.

15.	Consent to Communication and Disclosure

Without limitation to Clause 12 of the Bank’s Standard Terms and Conditions Governing Banking Facilities, you  expressly and irrevocably permit and authorize the Bank and the Bank’s officers to request, contact, communicate or liaise directly with the Equipment suppliers, insurance agents/ companies or any person at any time and from time to time as the Bank deems fit, for any documents and information relating to the Facility, and to disclose, reveal and divulge at any time and in such manner and under such circumstances as the Bank deems necessary or expedient in its sole discretion without prior reference to you, any and all information and particulars relating to and in connection with you, any and all of your accounts with the Bank (whether held alone or jointly), your credit standing and financial position, any transactions or dealings between you and the Bank, the Facility and any facilities granted to you, this facility letter and/or Hire Purchase Agreement, to any person at any time and from time to time.

16.	Other Terms and Conditions

You shall, unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank, maintain at least one operating account with the Bank for the day-to-day operation of your business for so long as any sum remains owing under the Facilities. You agree that the volume of your transactions including FX spot, forward and derivative transactions and Interest Rate swap and derivative transactions with the Bank would reasonably correspond with the utilization of the Facilities as well as the level and nature of your business activities.

17.	Inconsistency of Terms

In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this facility letter (as amended, modified, revised or supplemented from time to time) and the terms and conditions of the Hire Purchase Agreement to be entered into by you and the Bank, the former shall prevail, provided always that no inconsistency is deemed to have arisen or shall be treated as having arisen by reason only that matters addressed in the latter are not specifically addressed in the former or vice versa.

To the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the express terms herein, the Bank's Standard Terms and Conditions Governing Banking Facilities and any amendments, supplements or replacements thereto from time to time shall form part of and be deemed to be incorporated in this offer. 

We trust that the above terms and conditions are acceptable to you.  Please signify your acceptance of this offer by signing and returning the duplicate copy of this Facility Letter within 7 days from the date hereof, failing which this offer will lapse unless an extension is requested and agreed to by the Bank in writing.

We are pleased to be of service to you and look forward to hearing from you in due course.

Yours faithfully
for OVERSEA-CHINESE BANKING CORPORATION LIMITED



...................................................................





To: Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited

We hereby accept the Facility on the terms and conditions contained in the foregoing facility letter, on the terms and conditions in the Bank’s standard form Hire Purchase Agreement to be entered between the Bank and us and the Standard Terms and Conditions Governing Banking Facilities.

We hereby authorise the Bank to debit all instalments, interests, costs, charges and fees including processing fees, insurance premium and fees, if any, from our Account No. ____________________ or any other account which we have or may have with the Bank


......................................................................
For and on behalf of [Name of Hirer ]
Name of Authorised Signatory(ies):
Date:  
